Updated version of PR #27 (#36)
fairpm/fair-protocol: docs/moderation/governance/risk-management.md

## Emerging Risks

The following risks have been identified, and mitigation proposed. In most cases, the application of these risk mitigation strategies is described within the FAIR Moderation Specification.

### Content Provenance and Chain of Trust

* **Risk:** There’s no clear method for confirming whether a plugin/theme was actually created or approved by the claimed developer. This is especially a concern across multiple Repositories.
* **Suggested Mitigation:** Introduce developer signing (e.g., PGP, digital certificate, or verified WebFinger-style identity) to establish authorship and tamper-resistance. This could be tied to original repositories or suitable established mechanisms such as verified GitHub accounts.

### Version Confusion and Fork Clarity

* **Risk:** With multiple Repositories potentially hosting forks, users may not know which version is original, official, or modified.
* **Suggested Mitigation:** Standardize origin metadata. Each package should include:
  * `original_author`

>   * `Repository_origin`

Reviewer: Nitpick - this should be a lowercase r since it’s metadata examples.

* **Suggested Mitigation:** Require Repositories/Aggregators to declare:
  * Sponsorships or ownership relationships
  * Financial interest (direct or indirect) in hosted content
  * Ad-driven ranking models
* Consider a “conflict of interest” transparency badge.
* Consider a set of base criteria for each Repository/Aggregator to display affiliations (‘sponsorship’, ‘ad-based’, ‘affiliates’)

### Automated False Reporting Campaigns

* **Risk:** While safeguards exist for unqualified reports, a coordinated disinformation/reporting campaigns by bots or rival communities could be staged.
* **Suggested Mitigation:** FAIR should implement:
  * Reputation-weighted reports (trusted users count more)
  * Anomaly detection (burst reports from same subnet, unverified users)
  * CAPTCHA or challenge gating on report submission
  * Report heuristics (monitoring reports with same/similar working, lacking descriptions, etc.) and weigh the content of reports using Bayesian or other models, similar to sorting email spam from ham.

### Accessibility and Internationalization

> * **Risk:** Packages may omit accessibility (a11y) or multilingual support in thier metadata, directories, or interfaces.

Reviewer: Typo - thier should be their

also re reading ..

```suggestion
* **Risk:** Packages may omit accessibility (a11y) or multilingual (i18n) support in their metadata, directories, or interfaces.
```

* **Suggested Mitigation:**
  * WCAG-compliant admin/reporting interfaces (note: as legally required in many jurisdictions)
  * Support language tagging for package descriptions
  * Promote Repositories that offer multilingual support in package content or metadata (e.g., label with a badge)

### Federation Splits or Forks

> * **Risk:** Resilience of FAIR's trust model, review history, and directory state in the event that FAIR fracturing or fork.

Reviewer: grammar

```suggestion
* **Risk:** Resilience of FAIR's trust model, review history, and directory state in the event that FAIR fractures or forks.
```
